Marvel vs. Capcom 2
SonSon Character FAQ
Version:  3.1415926535897932384626433832795028841...  (Final)

Written by: 
Vegita, Guardian Of Destiny
(VegitaBOD@aol.com)

I.    Introduction
II.   Character Background
III.  General Notes
      A.  Alpha Assist
      B.  Beta Assist
      C.  Gamma Assist
      D.  Various Other Stuff
IV.   Special Moves
      A.  Tri-Monkey Kiss
      B.  Nyoi-Bo Strikes
      C.  Rising Nyoi-Bo
      D.  Ground Crawl
      E.  Wall Climb
      F.  What's Cookin' Doc?
      G.  Air Dash
V.    Super Moves
      A.  Power Nyoi-Bo Slam
      B.  Raging Ooarzu Monkey Demon SonSon!
      C.  Giant Lunch
VI.   Combos/Strategies
      A.  Combos
          1.  Magic Series
          2.  Hunter Series
          3.  Aerial Raves
          4.  Quick Combo Guide
      B.  General Strategies
      C.  Abyss Fighting
VII.  Disclaimer
VIII. Thanks


12-8-00:  Reworked some sections of the FAQ, adding side notes and such.  Added the Combo explanations.  Final version!

7-12-00:  Updated the "General Notes" section.  Added another combo.

7-3-00:  Updated the Character Background (I HAD my facts straight, I just didn't word them correctly).  Also changed the "Giant Peach" hyper to "Giant Lunch" (I didn't know it turned them into more than just a peach).

7-1-00:  FAQ created.

-Marvel vs. Capcom II -- Marvel vs. Capcom II-
---------------I.  Introduction---------------
-Marvel vs. Capcom II -- Marvel vs. Capcom II-

Welcome, folks!  My name is Vegita (Guardian Of Destiny), and I'm here today to give you the most pathetic help for any character in a fighting game since my Super Butoden 2 FAQs!  I'd give you a background on myself, but that'd take too long.  So here's my fighting game history!

I've been playing fighting games sparingly in my life.  I was always that poor schmutz that played as Dhalsim in the old Street Fighter II (the original) because I figured a guy with that kind of range couldn't possibly lose, right?  Well, after several Street Fighter incarnations, I realized that I had to play as every character, even the ones that no one liked.  I became rather adept as a Zangief player, and I could even take quite a few Shotokan players with my Fei Long skills.

After the multitude of fighting games since, my ability to master all the characters has dwindled.  I've had to pick my fights (and fighting games), but even then, there's just too many people to go with!  So what I've done is I play games, but I randomly pick people, and do what I can to win.  I've found that I hate Guile/Charlie and Shotokan players because they simply refuse to change!  Always the same manuevers combos, the same rushing/jumping attacks, ad nauseam...so my retrospective on the whole "Fighting Scene" was "Let 'em play as the same tried and true characters.  I'll find the better ones."  And although you may laugh, I think we have a winner with SonSon.


-Marvel vs. Capcom II -- Marvel vs. Capcom II-
-----------II.  Character Background----------
-Marvel vs. Capcom II -- Marvel vs. Capcom II-

SonSon came from the somewhat popular arcade and Turbografix 16 games of the same name from the mid 80s (run on sentences RULE!).  Her background past THAT, I don't know.  All I know is that she is a very LARGE rip off of Son Gokuu!  Allow me to explain.

In the Ancient Chinese Folklore, there was a "Monkey God" named Son Gokuu (or Son Okuung).  Gokuu was a small boy who, for unknown reasons, had ungodly strength and speed.  These qualities, however, were rivaled by his blatant stupidity and constant hunger.  Gokuu, through his multiple journeys and adventures, gained several tools to aid him.  Such items were an extending Staff, which came from God himself (but God didn't know it was taken!), and a flying cloud (Kintoun) that he could ride on.  This created some odd adventures, up until he ate the giant peach of immortality that belonged to the god of the underworld, which made this mischievous little monkey-man quite the pest.  Heck, after that little stunt, it took Buddha himself to capture him!

Gokuu had a few interesting traits about himself, too, that made him a truly unique...um, person:
-He had the looks of a man, but quite a few features of a monkey, as well (for instance: the tail!).  -Gokuu's main weakness was his tail (if you grabbed it, he lost all his strength), and 
-If he tried to remedy the situation by cutting it off, it'd only grow back!  
-Gokuu could pluck hairs off of his head and blow on them, causing them to turn into a miniature version of himself (confusing, no?).
-Finally, Gokuu would turn into a giant, raging Ooarzu (Giant Monkey-thing) if he sight the full moon.  Bad news for anyone around him at the time!

Now, SonSon is a rip off of this character how?  Well, ok, calling he a rip off isn't correct.  She's based off of the monkey God legends, as is Akira Toriyama's series "Dragon Ball", and the more recent show "Monkey Magic".  Each series or character has various traits from the monkey god legends, and each has their flaws.  Monkey Magic suffers from plot (it follows the Monkey God legends, but kinda not...), Dragon Ball takes the Monkey God legends and twists them around to MAKE the plot, and SonSon is Son Gokuu, save for the fact that "she" is supposed to be a "he".   

Frankly, I think it would have been neat for Capcom to have gotten Akira Toriyama's permission to use HIS Gokuu, since that Gokuu had WAY better abilities.  Albiet by doing so, this would easily ruin the concept of "Marvel vs. Capcom", since there wasn't a Capcom game with Gokuu, nor was there an appearance in a Marvel comic by Gokuu...  I just believe that if it came down to the best "Take" on the Monkey God legends, Gokuu would win out, THEN SonSon.  

There, that's all I know.  I swear.


-Marvel vs. Capcom II -- Marvel vs. Capcom II-
------------III.  General Notes---------------
-Marvel vs. Capcom II -- Marvel vs. Capcom II-

Ok, since I haven't had the pleasure of owning a Dreamcast, I've only gotten to play as SonSon in the Arcades.  And since I've only played as her in the arcades, most of this will be going off of memory, so bear with me!

-----III.A - Alpha Assist-----

Peach Heal.  SonSon steps out holding a peach for you to eat.  This is her healing assist.  There isn't much hope for comboing this assist, so don't try.  DO make sure you grab that peach, though, as it will recharge some of your green energy bar (if you've lost green, but not the red, it will recharge some of the green for you).

If SonSon is included (you have at least 2 or 3 bars) in a multiple-hyper combo, and you have selected the Alpha Assist, she will perform her "R.O.M.D.S." Hyper (see Hyper moves).


-----III.B - Beta Assist-----

Shien Bu (Tri-Monkey).  SonSon steps out and performs her Shien Bu projectile.  This is slow, but it's good if you know what you're doing with it (slow projectiles are always nice to trick your opponent with).

If SonSon is included (you have at least 2 or 3 bars) in a multiple-hyper combo, and you have selected the Beta Assist, she will perform her "R.O.M.D.S." Hyper (see Hyper moves).


-----III.C - Gamma Assist-----

Seiten Rengeki (Rising Nyoi-Bo).  SonSon jumps out and moves in an upward motion with her "Uppercut" attack, the Seiten Rengeki.  While not TOO terribly effective as an assist, if you're on to pull lots of cross-ups, this can really screw with someone's head.  

If SonSon is included (you have at least 2 or 3 bars) in a multiple-hyper combo, and you have selected the Gamma Assist, she will perform her "Power Nyoi-Bo Slam" Hyper (see Hyper moves).  I suggest if you pick this Assist, don't use the 2 or 3-man hyper moves, as you would have to be extremely close to guarantee SonSon's hitting.



-----III.D - Various Other Stuff-----

SonSon's Block:  She spins her Nyoi-Bo around in front of her.  Not quite as cool as some of the defenses in the game (Amingo and Iceman come to mind), but this still looks pretty neat.

Opening Pose:  SonSon flies across the screen on her cloud, then back again, where she jumps off and lands in a fighting pose.

Win Pose #1:  SonSon starts juggling several peaches and a monkey.  The monkey eats all the peaches, while being juggled.  The Monkey then lands on SonSon's head.

Win Pose #2:  SonSon juggles several peaches, then eats them one by one.  Then she feels sick from it.

Win Pose #3:  SonSon pumps her arms while making funny sounds, then stops and makes a funny face.  She does this three times, with 3 different faces.

Win Pose #4:  SonSon puts her Nyoi-Bo on her shoulder, grabs her tail, and grins at the camera while saying something in Japanese.  I don't know what she says, though, since I've only seen this pose once.

Assist Exit:  SonSon puts her Nyoi-bo on her shoulder, grabs her tail with her other hand, and grins at the camera.

Lose Pose:  She leans back on her Nyoi-Bo and tail, scratching her head.

Taunt Pose:  SonSon pumps her arms, saying "Yeah Yeah Yeah!"

Throw #1 (with a Punch):  SonSon puts them on the end of her Nyoi-Bo, then quickly extends it back and over her head, lauching the enemy into the air.

Throw #2 (with a Kick):  SonSon hops up onto the opponent's back, then hits them hard on the head, knocking them to the ground.

Colors:  Who honestly cares what color a character is?  I mean, I have a friend that hates the color changing and mirror matches, saying "It's not possible, and why would the change colors?"  My usual response to ANYONE about this is "Who cares?  It's a friggin' video game!"  So what if Juggernaut's Sewage Green, let's just fight!  I DO know that other than the red costume color, she also has a pink one...

General reaction to SonSon when you pick her (against other players):  "You're pickin' that wimp?  Geez, maybe I should have (blank*) go easy on you.

* = Insert name of popular, excessively cheap character to use: Cable, Spiderman, Akuma, Wolverine, Iceman, Amingo, Jill, Cyclops, Strider etc.

General reaction after you soundly tromp the other player with SonSon:  "Aw, I went easy on you anyways.  So what if you healed 5 times in a row!"

Actual Reaction I've gotten from winning with SonSon, Roll, and Juggernaut:  "Get away from me.  You make me sick, you small, then big, then small again freak..."

ANOTHER actual reaction I've gotten from winning with SonSon, Servbot, and Dhalsim:  "Jesus Christ, can you be my new God?"


-Marvel vs. Capcom II -- Marvel vs. Capcom II-
------------IV.  Special Moves----------------
-Marvel vs. Capcom II -- Marvel vs. Capcom II-

SonSon's special moves are certainly odd...they mimic other characters' special moves (Hadoken, Shoryuken, etc), but they certainly don't ACT like those moves.  Here are the special moves, with a bunch of names I made up for them:

-----IV.A:  Tri-Monkey Kiss of Death! (Shien Bu)-----

Movement:  Roll from Down to Towards + any Punch button.

-This attack is certainly...odd.  It's SonSon's projectile, but it's still...odd.  What she does is she plucks 3 hairs from her head and acts as if she's blowing a kiss, but from her mouth 3 smaller monkey-people are released, flying along in a horizontal path.  This attack comes straight from the old Monkey Legends.  Each one can strike, so one Shien Bu can generate 3 hits (duh!).  Not terribly easy to work into a combo, nor is it fast enough to counter other characters' projectiles.  It does, however, have seperate hit ranges, depending on the location of the 3 monkeys during their flight.  This can be a blessing and or a curse; take it as you will.

Another interesting point about this projectile is that after a certain distance, the monkeys will spread apart and fly off in different directions.  While you may think this isn't a good think, just think of the mind games you can play against another player:  he thinks you're gonna throw the strongest punch-projectile (so you can reach him), and he jumps over it as soon as it comes out...only to land on the upcoming monkey!  I've done that a couple of times (of course, mine was followed up by a Juggernaut assisting punch).

~This attack CAN be used in the air.
~This attack can NOT be cancelled into.
~This attack can NOT cancel into one of SonSon's Supers.


-----IV.B:  Nyoi-Bo Strikes-----

Movement:  Press any punch button repeatedly.

~When performed, SonSon will take her staff and swing it around in front of her, much like E. Honda and Chun Li's trakemark attacks (100-Hand Slap and Lightning Leg, respectively).  While it's good for a quick combo on the unsuspecting opponent, don't rely on this attack to get you by much, since it's hard to get out of to block attacks.  It CAN be cancelled into much greater attacks, however.

~This attack CAN be used in the air.
~This attack CAN be cancelled into.
~This attack can NOT cancel into one of SonSon's Supers.

-----IV.C:  Rising Nyoi-Bo Spin (Seiten Rengeki)-----

Movement:  Towards, Down, Down-Towards + any Punch button.

-When performed, SonSon rises upwards at an angle, spinning her Nyoi-Bo for multiple hits.  This is her equivalent to the always wonderful anti-air Shoryuken, as it has the same movement and same effect.  Hers, however, generally does not cause as much damage, but certainly jacks up the combo meter a notch.  This really is SonSon's combo attack.  You can rush in with a quick punching combo, then lead into this to end it.  The nice thing about this attack is the fact that it propells your enemy skyward with you, hitting a multitude of times for some decent damage.  Again, don't overuse this, though, as this attack will probably be a common threat...if your opponent learns to avoid it, then you're going to have a few more problems when you land from a missed attack.    

~This attack CAN be used in the air.
~This attack CAN be cancelled into.
~This attack CAN be used to cancel into her "Power Nyoi-Bo Slam."

-----IV.D:  Ground Crawl-----

Movement:  Roll from Away to Down to Towards + any Kick button.

-When you do this, SonSon will crawl across the ground quickly.  This is good for dodging projectiles, and it's even better than you might think, since it's easily cancellable into other, more powerful attacks.

~This attack can NOT be used in the air (obviously).
~This attack CAN be cancelled into.
~This attack CAN cancel into one of SonSon's Supers.

-----IV.E:  Wall Climb-----

Movement:  Roll from Down to Away + any Kick button.

-This is a very odd move as well.  SonSon turns and runs in the opposite direction, then makes a 90 degree turn and runs straight up the wall, then makes another 90 degree turn and walks across the top of the screen, then makes ANOTHER 90 degree turn and walks down the other wall, then...ok, she walks back to her original spot.  While this is entertaining to watch, its usefulness lies in the fact that if you're fighting one of those irritating beamers or hyper beamers, this attack will get you out of there in a fix, and place you right behind them.

The other part of this "attack" is what you do during your walk.  Once you've reached the top part of the screen, SonSon can do 3 things:  
-Continue her walk around the screen,
-Drop and kick at the same time (by pressing a Kick button), or
-Jump down in the direction you hold (by pressing a Punch button).

This attack really messes with your opponent because they don't know what you're going to do!  Unfortunately, you're VERY open to abuse when you do this, so don't mess with people TOO much, or else they will just get tired of you and blast you into space with whatever projectile they might have.

~This attack can NOT be used in the air (it requires walking).
~This attack can NOT be cancelled into.
~This attack CAN cancel into SonSon's "Power Nyoi-Bo Slam."

-----IV.F:  What's Cookin' Doc?-----

Movement:  Roll from Towards to Down to Away + Any Punch Button.

-This is a VERY weird "throw".  SonSon opens a bag, and if it connects, the enemy is sucked into the bag.  SonSon the brings out a giant kettle and roasts the enemy in the bag!  I don't know if you can qualify this as a throw or just a special attack, but it's pretty darn funny to watch!  Connecting with it, though, it difficult, as while it has a fairly good range, this attack - get this - CAN be blocked.  If you are pulling off a massive combo and your opponent blocks all of it, then when you use this attack they will also block IT.  Don't be stupid and use this attack if the other guy blocks it all.

~This attack can NOT be used in the air.
~This attack CAN be cancelled into.
~This attack can NOT cancel into one of SonSon's Supers.


-----IV.G:  Air Dash-----

Movement:  While in the air tap Towards, Towards or Away, Away

-The Usefulness of this move is its speed, by far.  Her air dash can move her from 1 side of the screen to the other in the blink of an eye.  Good luck catching her off guard with this one, because it really is her only speedy trick to get out of a jam.

~This attack can ONLY be used in the air (Duh; it's called the "Air Dash" for a reason).
~This attack can NOT be cancelled into.
~This attack CAN cancel into one of SonSon's Supers.


-Marvel vs. Capcom II -- Marvel vs. Capcom II-
--------------V.  Super Moves-----------------
-Marvel vs. Capcom II -- Marvel vs. Capcom II-

SonSon has 3 Super Moves, which I will go into detail with right now.

-----V.A:  Power Nyoi-Bo Slam-----

Movement:  Roll from Down to Towards + 2 Punch buttons

-This Hyper move certainly is...different.  SonSon throws up her Nyoi-Bo, then swings her arms forward as the GIANT end of it comes crashing down in front of her, about a half-screen distance all told.  The pluses of this Hyper are the fact that you can hit someone when she's throwing the staff upwards (and pretty much guarantees the rest of the hits), and the speed of the attack.  It's not possible to combo it, though, as the staff will usually either miss, or cause too much lag time (there IS lag time) for them to escape or counter.

This hyper move CAN Be used in the air.


-----V.B:  Raging Ooarzu Monkey Demon SonSon---

Movement:  Roll from Down to Away + 2 Punches buttons

-SonSon raises her arms, and grows EVEN BIGGER THAN JUGGERNAUT.  Then she can walk back and forth, and can use 3 abilities:
Jab punch (weak Punch button)
Massive Punch (Fierce Punch Button)
Fire Breath (any kick button; control with directional pad).

The R.O.M.D.S. (initials, folks)  is VERY nice, because of all the effects it has.  First of all, when SonSon's growing to her massive Monkey size, she is invincible (as far as I know...I haven't been hurt yet while doing this!).  If the enemy is close enough when you're doing this, they will take some damage from the growth itself!  Then you have the fact that you have super armor while this hyper is in effect.  THEN you have the fact that if an enemy is STILL in close, you can punch them across the screen, then flame them for LOTS of damage.  Finally, you have the anti-air threat, anti-ground threat, and anti-anything threat when you start using your fire breath.  The only thing that can prevent you from laying the smack down on your opponents after using this Hyper is if they get off a beam super (or Hulk uses his Gamma Crush; but then again, the Gamma Crush won't do as much, and will only leave him open for a MAJOR can of whoop @)%*$ !).

This Hyper move can NOT be used in the air.


-----V.C:  Giant Lunch-----

Movement:  Roll from Down to Towards + 2 Kick buttons

-SonSon takes in a deep breath, the screen flashes her picture, and she blows out a very LARGE word - Pow.  If this word connects, then your opponent changes into a GIANT piece of fruit, which SonSon proceeds to gobble up.  Then she picks her teeth, finds a seed, and spits it out, which then explodes, revealing the opponent once again.  This super does a VERY nice amount of damage, but the problem with it is that if the computer blocks it, then it will pass right through them, leaving SonSon open for a VERY long time.  I don't recommend this Hyper, as it's more for laughs.  This is the equivilent of Amingo's "Bell Sprout Dance" Hyper, as it's funny to watch, and does a good amount of damage...but connecting with it NEVER goes well.

This Hyper move CAN Be used in the air.


-Marvel vs. Capcom II -- Marvel vs. Capcom II-
-----------VI. Combos/Strategies--------------
-Marvel vs. Capcom II -- Marvel vs. Capcom II-


-----VI.A:  Combos-----

First of all, let's go over a few combos.  What SonSon may lack in overwhelming speed or power, she makes up for in complete randomness and an abundance of combos.  This is the shorthand I will be using for the combo system:

Low Punch - LP
Medium Punch - MP
Hard Punch - HP
Low Kick - LK
Medium Kick - MK
Hark Kick - HK

If there needs to be a prefix (sweeping, dashing, etc), then I'll list it prior to the specific move.

Now, in the Crossover series of fighting games (Marvel Super Heroes, Marvel vs. Capcom, Street Fighter vs. X-Men, etc), there are two basic combo series that everyone has at least one of.  These two combo series' are called the "Magic" series and the "Hunter" series.  


-----VI.A-1:  Magic Series-----

The "Magic" series is a run from the weakest to strongest punch or kick.  For example:

LP, MP, HP

That is an example of the "Magic" series.  Since the Marvel vs. Capcom 2 fighting engine no longer has the MP (in the Arcades), you can shorten the button pressing to:

LP, LP, HP

The beauty of the Magic series is that several characters can modify this in different ways.  Instead of using punches, you can use kicks:

LK, MK, HK

Or, in  the case of the arcades:

LK, LK, HK.

Sounds easy?  Well, it is.  What's even better is you can mix it up.  Some characters have crouching Magic combos:

Crouching LK (or LP), Crouching LK/MK (or LP/MP), Crouching HK (or HP).

To really confuse and destroy, one can alternate between punches and kicks in their magic combos, and even further confound and destroy by switching between crouching and standing.  For example, Spiderman has a combo were if you connect with a crouching MK then immediately follow it up with a standing HK, you'll launch the character.  There are other examples of this "varying standing-to-crouching" launching, but so far I haven't found any for SonSon.

~SonSon DOES follow the Magic system!


-----VI.A-2:  Hunter Series-----

The "Hunter" series is slightly more complicated than the "Magic" series.  In it, you utilize far more buttons, reaping greater combos and more damage.  Not all characters have "Hunter" combos, but those who do are usually feared greater than other characters.  Characters like Strider, Jill, Iceman, and yes, even SonSon, have Hunter combos.  The basic Hunter combo is as follows:

LP, LK, MP, MK, HP, HK.

As you can see, you're already doing twice as many hits as the magic series.  Oh, and for those of you in the arcades, here's how you'd do the basic Hunter combo:

LP, LK, LP, LK, HP, HK.

What's nice about the Hunter Combo, aside from its abundance of hits and damage, is that you can mix it up nearly as well as the Magic series.  While there aren't any Hunter combos for a character strictly in the crouching position, you can still mix up your attacks by alternating punches and kicks, or from crouching to standing (and vice versa).  For example - in Strider's case, he has a rather devastating combo as follows:

LP, LK, MP, MK, HP, HK, Spinning Backslash.

This combo knocks 'em back, then hacks away at 'em again.  What he COULD do, however, is alternate into something like this:

LP, LK, MK, MP, HP, Crouching HK.

As long as you follow the idea of "Weak, weak, medium, medium, fierce, fierce", then you've got it.  As far as I know of, every character that has a hunter combo also has a special move that fits in great as a closing move - for Strider it's the Backslash, for Iceman it's his Icebeam, and for SonSon it's a variety of moves, including her Rising Nyoi-Bo and Tri-Monkey attack.  

~SonSon DOES follow the Hunter system!


-----VI.A-3:  Aerial Raves-----

Here is the third type of combo, and while it doesn't vary much from the Magic and Hunter Series (depending on the character), there are special conditions that must be met:

-First and foremost, the character that you are going to thrash must be in air.  This is either done by jumping up in the air after they jump, then beating them, or using a launching attack and following them.
-Second of all, you can't be in the middle of another attack when you start an aerial rave.  For characters like Dhalsim, Cyclops, or Dr. Doom, if you're already in the middle of a special attack while in the air, then you won't be able to start the aerial rave.
-Finally, if the other guy is blocking, then consider your rave a waste - it simply won't work.

So in other words, you have to catch the guy offguard in the air, and punish him with a combo.  How do these combos work?  Depending on the character, you can either use a Magic Series or a Hunter Series Combo on them while in the air.  Now you see why it's good to understand these combo systems and know how to use 'em!  The easiest way to start an aerial rave is to perform a character's launching attack (usually crouching and a Strong Punch or Kick), then immediately pressing up after the blow connects.  The opponent will be sent upwards, and you will jump up and follow them.  When you meet up with said opponent in the air, now is the time to begin your aerial rave!  Here's an example:

      "Dan has successfully used a launcher to send Iron Man up into       
      the air, and presses up to follow him.  Upon reaching him, he 
      taps LK, MK, HK.  Upon hitting them with the HK, Dan sends them 
      crashing downward.  He'll get bonus points for an Air 
      Combo/Aerial Rave, and everyone will be in awe of someone using 
      Dan so effectively."

What's nice about Aerial Raves?  In Strider's case, you can do his Hunter Series combo (LP, LK, MP, MK, HP, HK), but instead of hitting HP you perform a crouching HP (which is his launching attack).  When he launches them with the crouching HP, he pressed up and follows them into the air, where he then performs ANOTHER Hunter series combo, utterly trashing the enemy.  This nets him a cool 10 hits, plus it's just darn impressive to see people do that sort of stuff.

Finally, Aerial Raves can be ended the very same way Hunter and Magic combos can - with a Special Move, a Super Move, or a Special Move cancelled into a Super Move.  However, when you hit HP or HK in an aerial rave, you will automatically end the rave, socking them back down to the ground.  Therefore, stick with the LP/LK's and MP/MK's, then throw in a Special Move!

~SonSon DOES have a multitude of Aerial Raves which CAN be cancelled into Special/Super Moves.


-----VI.A-4:  Quick Combo Guide-----

Now, let's do a couple of basic combos.  Remember, if you're in the arcade then you don't hit "MP" or "MK," you simply hit "LP" or "LK" again.

Special Note - SonSon has 2 launchers (that I've found): Crouching HP and Crouching HK.  Use 'em wisely, my son(son).

Magic Series #1 - LP, MP, HP.  This is a basic blast, where SonSon socks 'em twice, then slams the Nyoi-Bo down on their head.
Magic Series #2 - LK, MK, HP.  Again, it's a basic combo, with kicks instead of punches.
~Remember - you don't HAVE to do these.  You can mix up the punches and kicks, as well as crouching and standing, however you like.

Crouching Magic #1 - LK, MK, HK.  Although the HK will usually miss, if you can connect with it you can follow up with an aerial rave.
Crouching Magic #2 - LP, MP, HP.  Yeah, SonSon's bein' a jerk again with the crouching combos.  She's got this over a lot of characters...
~Remember - you don't HAVE to do these.  You can mix up the punches and kicks, as well as crouching and standing, however you like.

Hunter Series #1 - LP, LK, MP, MK, HP, HK.  Rock 'em, sock 'em, and with the final kick send 'em flying across the screen.  Ain't it nice?
Hunter Series #2 - LK, LP, MK, MP, HP, HK.  Slightly different.  I believe the punch one has better range, while the kick one is faster.
~Remember - you don't HAVE to do these.  You can mix up the punches and kicks, as well as crouching and standing, however you like.

Aerial Rave #1 - LP, LK, MP, MK, HP(or HK).  When using this rave, I suggest following ending it with either a special move or the HP.  A HP ender will net several hits, while the HK will only do 1 hit.

From these combos, you can build on special moves.  For instance:

Launching Combo - Whatever you want to use, Crouching HK.  With the final hit, you'll launch 'em up in the air.  You can then follow up with an Aerial Rave.

Special Combos - After a Magic combo you can usually tack on a special move, such as the Rising Nyoi-Bo or Tri-Monkey Kiss.

Tag-In Combos - With SonSon, the most you can usually do is connect with the hit from the Tag-in, then follow it up with a Rising Nyoi-Bo and finish it off with a Power Nyoi-Bo Slam.  This is enough to nearly take out Akuma, though, so don't think it isn't worth it!

Confusing Combos - Combos where you do a quick series of attacks with the intent of doing damage, or confusing your opponent into doing something stupid and rash.  One of my favorites is the Hunter Series with a twist:

LP, MP, LK, MK, HP, HK (short pause), What's Cookin' Doc?

This is the ultimate insult, and I've successfully done it 3 times in a fight!  While it works better if you've used Combo 6 a couple of times beforehand, this is still effective, as a lot of opponents like to rush blindly in after you've delivered the HK.  As soon as they do, they get sucked into SonSon's bag, and are roasted like the turkey they've proved themselves to be.


Yes, folks, there are more combos...I was just listing a few of them.  You'll notice I didn't include any launcher/air rave combos, simply because SonSon's launcher (Down-Forward + HK) has VERY little range!  For some characters you can chain LK, MK, down-forward HK, but for SonSon it just doesn't work.  What you CAN do is LP, LK, Crouching HK, which seems to connect more.  Just remember this - SonSon has a LOT of speed behind her attacks, and she can flow into one of dozens of combos.  All you gotta do is figure 'em out.


-----VI B:  General Strategies-----

SonSon has some priority with her attacks, but she's not the greatest.  She has some speed with her attacks, but she's not the greatest.  She has some power behind her attacks, but again, she's not the greatest.  So why pick her over anyone else?  She plays off of other characters very nicely.  Pair her up with Iceman (projectile assists) and Zangief or Hulk(Monstrous Power boy), and you've got a VERY potent team.  Although this works for anyone, if you have Iceman's projectile assist, then you can rush up during it and lay down a combo.  If your opponent sees it coming, and defends it, then hit low and combo into a Rising Nyoi-Bo attack.  If they jump it, then meet them coming up.  If they attack while going up, then launch an arial Rising Nyoi-Bo attack to counter it, or just launch a Tri-Monkey kiss to stop them cold.

Now, SonSon's got some speed and priority in the air.  If you want to play an air game, then let loose with a Tri-monkey kiss, then (after they jump) follow them and give them a very nice lesson in pain.  If you want to be particularly mean, however, do this several times, then one time, do so, and after they either air-dash towards you, or pull an attack that would guarantee they'd hit you first, pull out a Power Nyoi-Bo Slam.  The bo's flight upwards will hit them, then the crash downwards will make them think again.

Another great part of SonSon's repetoire is the fact that cancelling into her Hyper moves is easy to accomplish.  A Rising Nyoi-Bo attack followed by a Power Nyoi-Bo Slam is simple and VERY effective.  If your opponent is the kind of person who likes to rush towards you, do a quick wall walk, then drop behind them while doing the motion for a "Power Lunch".  If they're like most people I've seen, they'll keep right on attacking in the same direction, and will be helpless to defend against the slow-moving "POW" attack.  Too bad for them!

One of SonSon's best assets, though, is that she is a smaller character (about the same size as Roll), yet she takes normal damage (unlike other tiny characters).  She can move faster than lots of characters, and you don't have to worry about augmented damage.

Basically, SonSon's greatest abilities lie in her unusual fighting abilities, her lack of increased damage, and your mind games.  You can win using absolutely NO special moves if you play with her right.  I believe the only problem with poor SonSon is her launcher - it has practially NO range!  If you use it on an enemy that has jumped in, then it has great priority going up, but from a standing point, it just isn't that great.  I suggest you don't use it much.

-----VI C:  Abyss Fighting-----

---Form A---
Ok, so you're a little monkey with some mystical powers and a staff.  How do you fight a giant, walking suit of armor?  Simple!  Wait for him to do the first attack.  Once he starts up one of his thousands of attacks, jump up, air dash, land behind him, and combo away.  A second strategy for this form is to jump upwards, then pull an arial Rising Nyoi-Bo attack.  If you do this right, it can propell you up and over him, netting you some hits at the same time.

If Abyss is at a good distance, and it looks like he's going to pull a charge move on you, then you can either ground crawl under him (I've seen it work, folks!), or you can Wall Walk around him.  Get to the top of the screen, then jump past him, land, and drop whatever kind of attack you feel like using on his large, mettalic butt.

Overall, though, the most effective use of SonSon is her Combo 8 (see above).  Do this when Abyss has just gotten done with a Hyper blast or a charging attack, and you're sure to make him feel extremely stupid.  Go for it!

---Form B---
This guy's a pansy, and SonSon's perfect to show him how bad he is.  First of all, he isn't THAT big.  Second of all, he can't jump.  That means SonSon rules the top part of the screen when he's around.  If you want to toy with him, throw a bunch of Tri-Monkey kisses, then duck underneath whatever he's about to throw at you.

If it looks like he's about to use the laser attack on you, use your Wall walk to get above him, then drop down and hit him with a couple of attacks.  Since SonSon's not the quickest little combo-er ever, I suggest you don't pull out anything extravagant.  Abyss WILL destroy you if you stay in that spot too long.

Finally, if Abyss is using the bubble attack, dash to one side of the screen and launch a couple Tri-Monkey kisses.  One kiss usually takes out all three, but if you need to do more, don't hesitate.

---Form C---
All right!  A really big target!  SonSon will have the easiest fight in the world here, because she can use almost any of her Hypers on this guy with moderate to great success (don't use the Power Lunch, or you'll be laughed out of the arcade).  Remember: he's a big target.  If you can line up the Orb (whatever the heck that thing is called), then pull a Power Nyoi-Bo slam.  If you somehow get behind Abyss when he's doing his chain of rising Lava blasts, then use a R.O.M.D.S. Hyper, and flame away at the orb.  If you're stuck between the wall and his Hyper attack, duck or ground crawl.  I do NOT suggest using the Tri-Monkey kiss at ALL against him, as he will drop back into the lava and smack you around for using such a slow attack on him.

If you want to have some REAL fun, try beating all 3 Abyss forms without using the Rising Nyoi-Bo attack.  While it's your best bet when it comes to filling up your Power Bar, and against form 3 it's a decent attack on it's own, without it, you will have a VERY tough time against Form 1.  Go for it, folks!


-Marvel vs. Capcom II -- Marvel vs. Capcom II-
---------------VII.  Disclaimer---------------
-Marvel vs. Capcom II -- Marvel vs. Capcom II-


This FAQ was written by Vegita, Guardian Of Destiny.  It is copyrighted under the national laws of the United States of America.  All information within is the property of its respective owners.  If you wish to use this FAQ, in part or in whole, you MUST contact the author (VegitaBOD@aol.com) before doing so to gain permission.  I only ask that after gaining my permission, you do not change any of it.  

If this FAQ is currently being used by any websites that do not give me credit for it, or have changed the contents of this FAQ without permission, or are selling this FAQ, then that website is violating copyright law and can be sued.  I am always on the lookout for websites that do this, so if you know of a site that does one of these, let me know!  Thank you!


-Marvel vs. Capcom II -- Marvel vs. Capcom II-
---------------VII.  Disclaimer---------------
-Marvel vs. Capcom II -- Marvel vs. Capcom II-


First of all, I'd like to thank CJayC (Jeff Veasey, CJayC@GameFAQs.com, www.Game F A Q s.com) for the inspiration.  Websites about video games aren't passe, and writing about them doesn't make you a nerd; it makes you a better writer.  

I'd also like to thank Capcom for making such a great game (Marvel vs. Capcom 2), and I'd like to take that Thank You away for not extending their game to other companies (C'mon, imagine a game like this with characters from Castlevania!  Richter, Alucard, Dracula, etc...).  Finally, I'd like to thank my fighting game FAQ inspirations -- Kao Megura, JChristopher, and CJayC (again).  "You guys are crezzy, crezzy guys!"


This document copyrighted by Vegita, Guardian Of Destiny, June 2000.