CvS2 Joe Higashi
by Byakko

6 buttons character


parry : tap forward or down when you're about to be hit and you can parry most attack.
roll forward/backward, sidestep : LP+LK, hold forward or backward for a directed roll.

crouch HK slides forward.

punch throw : Joe simply throws the opponent to the other side of the screen.
kick throw : Joe repeatedly buries his knee in the opponent's stomach area (or crotch). Joe basically hits 8 times, but you can mash the kick buttons to add up to 3 hits. The animation plays faster once you have hit the buttons enough to add 1 hit, but your target can also mash his own buttons to p^revent you from adding hits. The final hit sends the opponent away.

Hurricane Upper : hcf+P
LP and MP send one hurricane across the screen, HP sends 2.

Golden Heel : qcb+K
Joe jumps, turn in mid-air and smashes the opponent with his heel. Nice range, can jump over airborn fireballs.

Slash kick : hcf+K
Joe dashes forward and kicks. Hit K again for a second kick. Faster horizontal dash than the Golden Heel, good range, passes over ground fireballs.

Tiger kick : dp+K
A nice uppercut with a flaming knee.

Bakuretsu ken : tap P (tap any punch buttons 5 times to start it - the sequence LP-MP-HP-LP-HP will give you the heavy punch Bakuretsu ken)


2*qcf+P : Screw Upper
A close ranged Hurricane Upper followed by a cyclone. Heavy punch version will have the cyclone moving forward.

qcf,hcb+P : Bakuretsu Hurricane Tiger Kakato
Bakuretsu ken, followed by 2 short ranged Hurricane Upper then a Tiger kick finishing with a Golden Heel. If you aren't close enough, the punches and hurricanes might push the opponent too far for the Tiger kick and Golden Heel to connect.

2*qcb+P : Double cyclone
One cyclone at each side of Joe. Makes the opponent slide toward the cyclones until he gets caught. Lv3 only.

f, hcf+P : Turbulence Upper
An adaptation of the Turbulence Upper from Fatal Fury : Wild Ambition. A short dash, a punch and a short ranged hurricane. If the punch missed, it stops here. Otherwise, Joe continues with a Tiger kick, a Golden Heel than smacks the opponent on the ground and makes him bounce, then a second Golden Heel mùaking the opponent bounce into the air again, another punch, a short ranged cyclone and finally, another Tiger kick. Lv3 only.